=head1 NAME

pkgfile - an alpm .files metadata explorer

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Usage: I<pkgfile> [operation] [options] target

=head1 DESCRIPTION

pkgfile searches the .files metadata created by B<repo-add>(8) to retrieve file
information about packages. By default, the provided target is considered to be
a filename and pkgfile will return the package(s) which contain this file. The
repos which pkgfile searches is determined by those enabled in
I</etc/pacman.conf>.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=over 4

=item B<-l>, B<--list>

The target is considered to be a package name rather than a filename, and the
contents of the named package are returned. This allows for repo/package style
syntax (such as "core/pacman") to limit the breadth of the search, but only when
B<--list> is used without the B<--glob> or B<--regex> options.

=item B<-s>, B<--search>

Search for packages containing the provided target. This is the default mode of
operation.

=item B<-u>, B<--update>

Update the stored metadata files. It is recommended to create a daily cron job
with this command to ensure accurate results. By default, only repos which are
found to be newer on the mirror will be downloaded. Pass this option twice to
force all repos to be downloaded.

=back

=head1 MATCHING

=over 4

=item B<-b>, B<--binaries>

Return only files which are contained within a bin or sbin directory.

=item B<-d>, B<--directories>

Match directories in search results.

=item B<-g>, B<--glob>

Enable shell-style glob pattern matching. See B<glob>(7). Note that the shell
wildcards I<*> and I<?> will never match path separators. Thus, this kind of
matching is useful for searching for entries within directories, e.g. I</usr/bin/*>.

=item B<-i>, B<--ignorecase>

Disable case sensitivity in matching.

=item B<-r>, B<--regex>

Enable regular expression matching. See B<pcre>(3).

=item B<-R> I<REPO>, B<--repo=>I<REPO>

Search only the specific repo.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

=over 4

=item B<-0>, B<--null>

Delimit output with null bytes rather than newline characters.

=item B<-q>, B<--quiet>

Output less. This applies to the B<--list> operation.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Output more. This applies to the B<--search> operation.

=item B<-w>, B<--raw>

Avoid justification of 2 column output.

=back

=head1 DOWNLOADING

=over 4

=item B<-z>, B<--compress>[B<=>I<COMPRESSION>]

Repack downloaded repos with the optionally supplied compression method, which
may be one of B<none>, B<gzip>, B<bzip2>, B<lzop>, B<lz4>, B<lzma>, B<xz>, or
B<zstd>. If this flag is passed without a compression method, this defaults to
B<gzip>. If this flag is not passed at all, no compression will be applied.
Applying any form of compression will decrease performance, but may be
desirable for disk space concerns.

=back

=head1 GENERAL OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-C> I<FILE>, B<--config=>I<FILE>

Use a config file other than the default of I</etc/pacman.conf>.

=item B<-D> I<DIRECTORY>, B<--cachedir=>I<DIRECTORY>

Use a cache path other than the compile-time default.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Print help and exit.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print the version and exit.

=back

=head1 MATCHING HEURISTICS

In --search mode and without the --regex or --glob option, pkgfile will attempt
to match the provided target as an exact filename. If the target contains a '/'
character, a full path match will be attempted. With --regex and --glob enabled
searching, pkgfile will always match against the full pathname.

In --list mode and without the --regex or --glob option, pkgfile will attempt to
match the provided target as an exact package name. If the target contains a '/'
character, the text before the slash will be assumed to be a repository and the
search will be restricted.

=head1 COMMAND NOT FOUND HOOKS

=over 4

=item I</usr/share/doc/pkgfile/command-not-found.bash>

=item I</usr/share/doc/pkgfile/command-not-found.zsh>

=item I</usr/share/doc/pkgfile/command-not-found.fish>

zsh, bash and fish compatible functions which can be included in shell initalization
to run pkgfile when an executed command is not found.

If the environment variable PKGFILE_PROMPT_INSTALL_MISSING is set, and only one
package is found, a prompt to install the package will be shown. B<NOTE>: this
feature requires the B<sudo>(8) program, and is currently only supported by the bash
implementation.

=back

=head1 AUTOMATING UPDATES

pkgfile includes systemd timer and service units to automate periodic updates
to the .files DBs. Assuming that pkgfile was built with systemd support, this
can be enabled with:

  systemctl enable --now pkgfile-update.timer

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<repo-add>(8), B<pcre>(3), B<glob>(7), B<pacman.conf>(5)

=head1 AUTHOR

Dave Reisner E<lt>dreisner@archlinux.orgE<gt>
