=head1 NAME

pkgfiled - automatically syncs pacman .files DBs to the pkgfile cache

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Usage: I<pkgfiled> [options] pacman_dbpath pkgfile_cache

=head1 DESCRIPTION

pkgfiled is a tiny daemon which watches for changes to B<pacman>(8)'s .files
databases (typically under I</var/lib/pacman/sync>) and repackages these for
consumption by pkgfile. This allows data to remain in sync between pacman and
pkgfile.

Upon starting, pkgfiled will compare the contents of the pacman database with
the pkgfile cache and catch up with anything out of sync. After this, it will
only wake up when changes occur to the pacman database.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-f>, B<--force>

On the initial sync, ignore timestamp comparisons and rewrite all found databases.

=item B<-o>, B<--oneshot>

Exit after pkgfiled's initial sync, rather than continuing to listen for changes.

=item B<-z>, B<--compress>[B<=>I<COMPRESSION>]

Repack repos with the optionally supplied compression method, which may be one
of B<none>, B<gzip>, B<bzip2>, B<lzop>, B<lz4>, B<lzma>, B<xz>, or B<zstd>. If
this flag is passed without a compression method, this defaults to B<gzip>. If
this flag is not passed at all, no compression will be applied. Applying any
form of compression will decrease performance, but may be desirable for disk
space concerns.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Print help and exit.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print the version and exit.

=back

=head1 SIGNALS

=over 4

=item B<SIGINT>, B<SIGTERM>

When run interactively, pkgfiled will gracefully shutdown on receipt of
B<SIGINT>. Otherwise, B<SIGTERM> is used to indicate a graceful shutdown.

=item B<SIGUSR1>, B<SIGUSR2>

Upon receipt of these signals, pkgfiled will rescan the pacman database
directory for changes and update as needed. Unlike B<SIGUSR1>, B<SIGUSR2>
will ignore timestamps checks and rewrite all found database.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<pkgfile>(8)

=head1 AUTHOR

Dave Reisner E<lt>dreisner@archlinux.orgE<gt>
