=head1 NAME

pkgfile - an alpm .files metadata explorer

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Usage: I<pkgfile> [operation] [options] target

=head1 DESCRIPTION

pkgfile searches the .files metadata created by B<repo-add>(8) to retrieve file
information about packages. By default, the provided target is considered to be
a filename and pkgfile will return the package(s) which contain this file. The
repos which pkgfile searches is determined by those enabled in
I</etc/pacman.conf>.

=head1 OPERATIONS

=over 4

=item B<-l>, B<--list>

The target is considered to be a package name rather than a filename, and the
contents of the named package are returned. This allows for repo/package style
syntax to limit the depth of the search.

=item B<-s>, B<--search>

Search for packages containing the provided target. This is the default mode of
operation.

=item B<-u>, B<--update>

Update the stored metadata files. It is recommended to create a daily cron job
with this command to ensure accurate results. By default, only modified repos
will be downloaded. Pass this option twice to force update repo databases.

=back

=head1 MATCHING

=over 4

=item B<-b>, B<--binaries>

Return only files which are contained within a bin or sbin directory.

=item B<-d>, B<--directories>

Match directories in search results.

=item B<-g>, B<--glob>

Enable shell-style glob pattern matching. See B<glob>(7).

=item B<-i>, B<--ignorecase>

Disable case sensitivity in matching.

=item B<-r>, B<--regex>

Enable regular expression matching. See B<pcre>(3).

=item B<-R>, B<--repo>

Search only the specific repo.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

=over 4

=item B<-0>, B<--null>

Delimit output with null bytes rather than newline characters.

=item B<-q>, B<--quiet>

Output less when using the B<--list> operation.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Output more. This applies to the search operation.

=item B<-w>, B<--raw>

Avoid justification of 2 column output.

=back

=head1 DOWNLOADING

=over 4

=item B<-z>, B<--compress>[B<=>I<COMPRESSION>]

Repack downloaded repos with the optionally supplied compression method, which
may be one of B<none>, B<gzip>, B<bzip2>, B<lzma>, or B<xz>. If this flag is
passed without a compression method, this defaults to B<gzip>. If this flag is
not passed at all, no compression will be applied. Applying any form of compression
will decrease performance, but may be desirable for disk space concerns.

=back

=head1 MATCHING

In --search mode and without the --regex or --glob option, pkgfile will attempt
to match the provided target as an exact filename. If the target contains a '/'
character, a full path match will be attempted. With --regex and --glob enabled
searching, pkgfile will always match against the full pathname. Note that full
paths in the search database do not begin with a B</>.

In --list mode and without the --regex or --glob option, pkgfile will attempt to
match the provided target as an exact package name. If the target contains a '/'
character, the text before the slash will be assumed to be a repository and the
search will be restricted. This behavior is disabled with --glob and --regex, and
only matching against the package name will occur.

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item I</var/cache/pkgfile>

Storage location for metadata.

=item I</usr/share/doc/pkgfile/command-not-found.bash>

=item I</usr/share/doc/pkgfile/command-not-found.zsh>

zsh and bash compatible functions which can be included in shell initalization
to run pkgfile when an executed command is not found.

=back

=head1 UPDATING VIA CRON

It is recommended that the .files databases are updated on a regular basis in
order to ensure accurate results. This is easily accomplished by adding a cron
job to run I<pkgfile> with the B<--update> flag daily.

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<repo-add>(8), B<pcre>(3), B<glob>(7), B<pacman.conf>(5)

=head1 AUTHOR

Dave Reisner E<lt>dreisner@archlinux.orgE<gt>

